Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome David Wright,
Mac OS X Applications Technology Manager.
Welcome everybody to
session 125 Core Foundation:
Advanced.
So after the last session
I heard two comments.
One developer said this stuff was blowing
him away and someone else said they
can't wait to get their hands on it.
So I'm really pleased to introduce
more of it in this advanced session.
So at this time please
welcome Becky Willrich from
the Cocoa Framework team.
Thank you, David.
Wow, well welcome back.
So we're just going to continue what
we started talking about this morning.
I'm Becky Willrich still.
And what we're going to do today in
this afternoon is continue where the
Core Foundation basics picked up.
So for those of you that maybe
did not make this morning's talk,
we're going to repeat some of the
initial parts where we talk about where
Core Foundation lives inside of Mac OS X.
And then we're going to move on and
look at some of the subsystems and
services that Core Foundation provides.
So, in particular we're going to be
looking at CFBundle and CFPlugin and
what they can do for you.
Then we're going to talk a little
bit about preferences and how CF can
make it easier for you to manage
user preferences in your application.
We're going to look very briefly
at what XML services are provided.
And then finally we're going to
spend a moment talking about advanced
memory tricks that you can use
when working with Core Foundation.
As I mentioned in this morning's talk,
Core Foundation lives right
above the operating system layer.
And at that layer we are very concerned
with performance because we impact most
everything that runs on the system.
That's reflected in the APIs and there
are a number of advanced tricks you can
use to reduce your memory footprint.
So just to repeat what
I said this morning,
Core Foundation is the
lingua franca on Mac OS X.
It is the language by which you can
communicate across both Carbon and Cocoa.
So there's the same definition
you saw this morning:
a medium of communication between
peoples of different languages.
And for us,
we're interested in communicating
between Carbon and Cocoa.
So there's the architecture
diagram for Mac OS X.
And there we are inside
the core services layer.
The core services layer, remember,
is that layer where many common
application needs are provided
that are below the graphics layer.
So in particular, you'll see the file
manager inside of there,
the alias and resource managers as well.
And beneath all of that is
Core Foundation providing the basic
types used throughout the system.
So this morning we talked about the
basic data types in Core Foundation:
strings, arrays, dictionaries,
and then finally how it all
came together as property lists.
Now we're going to focus on the
second half of the equation:
the non-graphical services
that Core Foundation provides
to all its clients.
In particular, we're going to look at
localization support as provided
by CFBundle and user preferences.
So what do I mean when
I talk about a CF service?
What I'm talking about is an integrated
subsystem that's built based on the
CF types that we saw this morning.
There are several
inside Core Foundations,
some of which you are likely
to never use yourself.
CFRunLoop is an example.
We use the RunLoop to maintain
the main event loop in both
Carbon and Cocoa applications.
In all likelihood,
you'll never need to use it,
but it's silently doing its work
inside of a Carbon application
or a Cocoa application.
Others you will find
yourself using directly.
CFBundle is an example of that.
So this afternoon we're going to be
talking particularly about CFBundle,
which you will use to get at
the different pieces inside
your applications package.
CFPreferences, which you can use to
store user preferences.
CFPreferences will do the work of
reading and writing to file and
creating the persistency format for you.
And CF XML Parser,
which if you're interested
in parsing XML files,
obviously we'll give you a hand.
So with that, I'm going to turn the stage
over to Doug Davidson,
my colleague, who's going to spend some
time talking about bundles
in the app packaging scheme.
Doug?
Thanks, Becky.
So I'm Doug Davidson.
Good afternoon.
I'm here to talk to you about bundles.
What they are, what they do,
how to use them.
By the end of this talk,
you should know what bundles are
and what they can do for you,
how to use the CFBundle APIs to
deal with them,
and where to go to get more
detailed information about them.
So, first of all, what is a bundle?
A bundle is a way to treat all
of the files associated with an
executable as a single object.
Now, once upon a time,
an application was a single simple thing,
just an executable file.
But, applications need resources.
So you add a resource fork and
you put resources in there and
you still have a single file.
But, applications have a way of
accumulating other files with them.
Additional executables, libraries,
text files, quick time content, HTML,
all sorts of stuff.
Now, with Mac OS X,
it gets even worse because you
might want to have potentially
different versions of this stuff,
one for Mac OS 8 and 9
and one for Mac OS X.
Plus, this is a multilingual system,
which means that you would want to have
different versions of these things.
Some of these things for the different
languages or language regions that
your application is localized into.
So,
how are you going to hold all this stuff?
The answer is in a bundle.
Now what can a bundle hold?
First of all,
a bundle can be wrapped around many
different kinds of executables.
Application packages are bundles.
Frameworks are bundles.
They have loadable bundles.
Plug-ins can be bundles.
A bundle can contain multiple executables
and it can potentially contain
different versions of these executables,
one for Mac OS 8 and 9, one for Mac OS X,
if you like.
[Transcript missing]
Some characteristics of bundles.
Bundles are cross-platform.
That means Mac OS 8 and 9 and Mac OS X.
Anything in them can be versioned.
One version for Mac OS 8 and 9,
one version for 10.
They are multilingual.
You can have different versions of
your resources for particular languages
or particular language regions.
Cross-binary.
On Mac OS X we have both
CFM and Mac OS binaries.
And CFBundle will automatically
know the difference,
understand both,
and automatically provide the glue
to allow you to call between them.
Self-contained, movable, renameable.
They're designed to be a single
object to the user so that,
for example,
your install procedure can just
be drag and drop in the finder.
For your uninstall procedure,
just a drag and drop, rename them.
As long as the internals are not touched,
the bundle does not break.
And finally, file system independent.
That means they're designed so that it
is not necessary to use resource forks.
So that these bundles can be
moved to file systems that may not
have support for different forks.
So you could store them
on arbitrary file systems,
arbitrary servers, CD ROMs, etc.
And without loss of fidelity,
you can just drag and drop from them.
Or maybe you don't even
need to install them.
Maybe you just launch it
directly from the server.
Now, I should say one thing that bundles
don't provide is they don't provide
a space for you to write on.
If you have files that
you need to write out,
those should probably go somewhere else.
And one reason for this is
because your application might
have been launched from a server,
from a CD-ROM.
It's kind of hard to write to a CD-ROM.
The next section of this talk about
CFPreferences will go into a little
more detail about possible places
where you can write out files.
Now, I thought that probably the best
way to explain about bundles
would be to just show you one.
So, if we could get demo two here.
I've made up a simple bundle.
This happens to be an
application package.
I called it simple test.
And so here's my install procedure.
Notice I'm copying to the desktop.
That's it.
Here's my uninstall procedure.
Let's see that again.
Okay, now just one thing.
It's obvious how to launch it.
Double click on it.
And here's my application.
Okay.
But suppose I prefer to work in French.
Now I'm working in French.
Here's my application in French.
Or maybe I prefer Japanese.
One thing I want you to notice
is that this is not just
picking a single language,
this is a preference order.
So suppose I prefer Italian,
my second choice is German, then French.
Now, I didn't actually localize
this application into Italian.
So when I launch it,
what I get is my second choice,
which was German.
So now let's take a look and
see what's inside this bundle.
Now what I want to say is this
is a typical bundle layout,
but I don't want you to pay too
much attention to exactly the
details of where things are located.
There are several variations,
just look at the various components
and how they work together.
See a bundle understands
all the variations,
past, present, and future,
and it will deal with them for you.
So what do we have?
First of all we have our executables.
This is the executable
for Mac OS plus 10.
And there is another version of
the executable for Mac OS 8 and 9
called-- labeled Mac OS Classic.
What else do we have?
We have the metadata that I talked about.
There's a special file
called package info,
just holds the type and
creator information.
and then we have the Info.plist which
holds our info dictionary.
So I want to take a special look at that.
And here that is.
And I have set up a
number of keys in here.
I just want to point out some of them.
CFBundle executable.
That is what tells CFBundle what your
primary executable is for this bundle.
[Transcript missing]
There are a number of others.
Let's see.
See a bundle identifier.
This is supposed to be a unique
identification string for your bundle.
We recommend that people use the
format that may be familiar from Java,
which is com.yourname, and so forth,
a reverse Internet name.
Just so that you'll get a unique
string so that each bundle
can be uniquely identified.
Now, there are many possible keys that
could go in the info dictionary.
And, um, I'm going
Some of them have
significance to see a bundle.
Some of them have significance
to other things like the finder.
There is going to be
another talk tomorrow,
I believe it is,
on application packaging in particular,
which will discuss in much more
detail what the finder wants to see.
Some of these entries in
the InfoDictionary can be
localized themselves and I'll
go into that a little later.
So what else is there in the bundle?
Well, we have the resources.
And first of all,
let's take a look at the
non-localized resources,
those that don't depend on
which language you're using.
And simpletest.rsrc.
This contains the non-localized resource
manager resources for this application
in the data fork of that file.
And there is also
another version of that,
SimpleTest Mac OS Classic,
which contains the same
thing but for Mac OS 8 and 9.
You don't actually have to have that,
but if you have separate versions,
you can have separate versions
for different platforms.
Then I have an icon and, oh,
maybe a movie.
Anything you want, you can put in here.
Now we also have localized resources,
and these are in separate
folders for this type of
languages or language regions.
So for English, I have in localized.rsrc,
I have the localized resource manager
resources for this application.
And then I have the simple test.nib,
which is one of those interface builder,
interface definitions.
And if you haven't seen
interface builder in action,
you really should.
Then I have info-plist.strings.
This is what contains the localizations
for any of the items in the info
dictionary that need localizing.
and localizable.strings,
which contains localizations
for other CFStrings.
We give special attention to the
localization of CFStrings because the
CFString is our basic Unicode-savvy,
internationalization-ready string,
and so it's the most common
thing you want to localize.
and then anything else
that I want to put in here.
And then you'll see that the French
The CFBundle automatically picks the
right one based on the user's language
preferences and on the platform.
There is also another talk
tomorrow afternoon specifically on
Mac OS X localization which will
go into this in much more detail.
Now,
if we could get the slides back on...
So, now we just talked about bundles
as they live on the disk.
Now what is a CFBundle?
A CFBundle is a programmatic
object that represents the bundle
on the disk to your application.
So, if you know that there's a bundle,
how do you create the
CFBundle that corresponds to it?
A canonical way to do so is simple.
You take the URL that points to the
bundle's location and pass it into
CFBundleCreate and you get a CFBundle.
If the code for the bundle is already
loaded and running in your process,
then there are other ways to
get a hold of the CFBundle.
For example,
the bundle for the application
itself is called the main bundle.
And you use CFBundle get main bundle,
and it gives you the main bundle,
no arguments.
If you have some other bundle,
perhaps a framework or a loadable bundle,
plug-in, and you know that its code
has already been loaded,
then you can look it
up by its identifier.
Remember, the identifier was that unique
string that we talked about.
This is very useful, for example,
if you have a framework,
a loadable bundle,
you don't necessarily want to know
exactly where it's located on the disk,
but once it's loaded inside its code,
you want to be able to find its bundle.
So you look it up by the identifier.
Now then, once you have a CFBundle,
what can you do with it?
Well, probably the most important,
most common thing is to look
up these bundle resources.
Again, it's very simple.
CFBundle copy resource URL.
You pass in the name of
the resource you want,
and CFBundle returns you
a URL that points to it.
It will look up the correct version
based on the user's language
preference again on the platform.
Another thing you may want to do
is to look at the metadata from the
info dictionary and see if bundle
get value for info dictionary key.
You pass in a key,
it passes out a value correctly
localized if that particular
value happens to be localized.
And there's also a CFBundle get package
info which gets the type and creator that
I mentioned in the package info file.
What else can you do with CFBundle?
Well, as I mentioned,
you can have resource manager resources.
And so there is an API CFBundle,
OpenBundleResourceFiles,
which simply opens both the non-localized
and the localized resource manager
resource files for that application.
Now, in case of an application bundle,
you actually don't need to call this.
It will be done automatically
for you on launch.
But if you have some
other kind of bundle,
framework, loadable bundle that have
resource manager resources in it,
you might need to call this
API yourself explicitly.
And as I mentioned,
we give special attention to
the localization of CFStrings.
And so we have a number of functions
starting with CF copy localized
string to get the localizations
of CFStrings out of files like the
localizable.strings that I mentioned.
What else can CFBundle do?
Well, CFBundle can also load code.
And again, it's very simple.
All you do is tell your bundle, load,
CFBundle load executable,
and it loads the code.
CFBundle automatically figures out on
OS X whether the code is CFM or MachO and
uses the correct procedure to load it.
Of course, on OS X and 9, it's just CFM.
And once you have the code loaded,
then you can,
if you want to call into it,
and you can look up functions by name,
and CFBundle will return
you a function pointer.
And, um,
Whether you are calling from
CFM or MacO and whether the bundle
you are loading is CFM or MacO,
CFBundle automatically figures out and
returns an appropriate function pointer.
In either case, it can be used to call.
One caveat though.
On DP4, if you are calling this from CFM,
then in order for it to work correctly,
you must have turned on the
new Carbon vector libraries.
This is described in the Code Fragment
Manager release note on your CD.
In future, this will be available
all the time to everyone.
Okay.
Now the next thing I wanted
to talk about is CFPlugin.
If you're writing plug-ins,
perhaps the functionality I just
talked about is perfectly fine for you.
All you want to do is be able to load
code and look up functions by name.
Or maybe you already have your
own plug-in model that manages the
interface between the application
and the plug-in yourself.
In that case, you may not need to
look at CFPlugin at all.
However,
if you're looking for a sophisticated
API for managing interfaces between
an application and its plug-ins,
CFPlugin may be what you want to use.
And there are a number of Apple projects,
which you may have heard about
and various other things,
that will use CFPlugin for
their plug-ins.
I don't really have time to go into
the details of CFPlugin right now.
I just want to briefly
describe what it does.
The application will describe the
interfaces that it was looking for,
and the plug-in itself will advertise
[Transcript missing]
And then the application will
then look at the plug-in,
interrogate it,
see what interfaces it supports.
The interfaces are looked up by UUID,
which is just a universal identifier.
And the interfaces are
tables of function pointers.
They are COM compatible if you use COM.
In particular,
we specify the IUnknown interface.
We're not using COM,
but they should be compatible in layout.
There is an example of this,
a detailed example, in the CFBundle and
CF plug-in release note.
And really, this is something that is
best learned by example.
So now what I want to reiterate is,
what you take home is bundles are a
way to treat all the files associated
with an executable as a single object.
And CFBundle is the programmatic
interface that you will
use to deal with them.
So I'm going to turn
things back over to Becky.
Thanks Doug.
Looks simpler than what
you're doing today?
Good.
That's the idea.
Okay, so I'm going to go on now to talk
about the user preferences services
that Core Foundation provides.
and it provides it via CFPreferences.
The idea was to give you a mechanism
for easily storing and retrieving your
user preferences without forcing you
to define your own file structure.
You give every preference a name,
then you assign a value to that name.
The value can be any of the property
list types we talked about this morning.
You can even make it an
array or a dictionary with a
complex structure underneath.
And then you hand it off to us
and we handle everything else.
And in particular,
the data format and the
storage is our problem,
not yours.
You will always be
dealing with the CF types.
So the details.
These are kind of internal
implementation details,
but I thought I'd share
them with you anyway.
We use XML for most
of the backing stores.
There are a couple exceptions to that,
in particular when we have
to share across the network.
We cache preference values for
efficiency so that every time you
ask for a preference and every
time you write a preference,
we don't actually hit the disk.
And CFPreferences,
like all of Core Foundation,
is a thread-safe system.
The caveats:
CFPreferences is not intended for
hundreds upon hundreds of Ks of data.
Doug mentioned that if your
application needs to write data,
it should not go into the bundle.
You can put it in preferences if it's
of an appropriate size and nature.
On the other hand, if you need to write
hundreds of K of data,
you have two solutions available to you.
If it's a temporary cache,
write it to the temporary folder.
If you need a permanent
storage mechanism,
you can still use find folder to
find the preferences folder and
write your own data there that way.
However, we are using property lists.
Property lists are XML and we have
all the same serialization problems
I talked about this morning.
And it's best used for
under 100 K of data.
Also, CFPreferences is not intended
for app critical data.
Well, what do I mean by that?
Most people consider their
preferences critical.
Well, I simply mean that if it turns
out that a preference value is
not in the preferences file,
your app should not crash.
Likewise, if someone has gone in there
and written a bad value,
your app should not crash.
We guarantee when we read the file
that if the file itself is corrupted,
we will fail gracefully and return null.
Your job is just to catch
that and make sure that you're
not going to crash because we
couldn't load your preferences.
So the API is very simple.
Most clients are only ever going
to need these three functions.
CFPreferences copy app value
will read a preference.
CFPreferences write app value
will take a preference value
from you and write it out.
And then CFPreferences app synchronizes
what you use to synchronize the
cache with the permanent storage.
If you call CFPreferences app
synchronize every time you
read or write a preference,
then you've defeated the cache.
The idea here is that you would
write several preferences at once
and then synchronize the cache,
or perhaps even leave it to
a lower library to do the
synchronization for you.
So let's take a look at the
three functions in detail.
CFPreferences copy app
value takes two arguments.
The first one is the key or the name
of the preference you wish to retrieve.
And the second argument is a string
which identifies your application.
This is going to cause CFPreferences to
go out and look at all the various
places that preferences are stored,
find a match for the key,
and assuming it finds such a match,
it will return the value.
The other half is writing,
CFPreferences set app value.
You supply the key, the new value,
and again your application ID.
Once you've written,
make sure that at some point in the
future you call CFPreferences app
synchronize or you know that a
library is going to do it for you.
This is mostly of interest
for Cocoa applications.
The Cocoa frameworks
will synchronize for you.
So what was that
application ID in the API?
Most of the time you're simply going
to pass KCF preferences current
application and that says this is a
preference for the current application
use CFBundles abilities to locate the
correct place to store this information.
In those cases where you are
writing code that needs to write
preferences to other locations,
the apps are going to be identified
by their bundle identifier.
We chose the bundle identifier
because the bundle ID,
as Doug mentioned, is unique.
As he showed you,
the bundle ID should be set somewhere
in the info.p list under the
CFBundleIdentifier key and should be
of the form com.companyname.appname.
Now, if CFPreferences is asked to write
a preference for an application
that has not set this key,
CFPreferences is going to default back
to using the application's name itself.
But, you know, as soon as you do that,
we run the risk of conflicts,
and that's why we're encouraging
everyone to set the bundle identifier.
Okay, so there are a handful
of convenience functions.
A lot of times when you're
reading a preference value,
you just want a Boolean value,
true/false.
Other times you just need
to store an integer value.
So that's what these two
functions are intended for,
cf_preferences_get_app_Boolean_value and
cf_preferences_get_app_integer_value.
In both of these cases,
it returns the value that it finds,
or if it can't find the value or
the value is not of the proper type,
they default to different values.
cf_preferences_get_app_Boolean_value
is going to return false,
get_app_integer_value
is going to return zero.
If you're interested in the difference
between a genuine zero value and the
preference not being properly set,
you use the second is valid argument,
and we will tell you whether we
found a valid preference or not.
CFPreferences,
these functions will go through and check
for several different possible formats.
So by using CFPreferences get
at Boolean value,
we will not only check
for a true CFBoolean type,
but also check for a CFString that
matches true or false,
for instance,
and also check for some number formats.
So where are these
preferences coming from?
I've mentioned,
kind of alluded a couple different
times to the fact that an
application's preferences could come
from several different locations.
We call each of these locations a domain,
and then we combine all the
different domains that are relevant
to a particular application
into what we call the search list.
And when we look for a
preference for your application,
we're going to just walk the search list
in a fixed order until we find what,
until we find the one we're looking for
or we fall off the bottom of the list.
So what's a preference domain?
A preference domain is uniquely
identified by three things:
the user, the host,
and the applications identifier.
So I could, for instance,
talk about the mail preferences for
the user Becky Willrich on the host,
this particular host.
But you can also simply refer to each
of these as either the current or any.
So I can look for the mail preferences
for the user Becky on the current host.
Or search for preferences set by the mail
application for the user Becky on any
host on a fully networked environment.
So in all cases, current means the user,
host, or application relevant
to the current process.
That's the user who ran the application,
the application being run,
and the host that the
application is run on.
Any means that the preference is not
specific to a particular application.
So for instance,
it's very rare to want to write
a preference for an application
that's specific to just this host.
Most of the time those application
preferences go to the any host domains.
So just some examples.
Preferences for the current
user on any host for the
currently running application
is the most common domain used.
This is where 90% of your
preferences are going to be stored,
maybe 99%. But you can
have other combinations.
For instance, the current user on any
host for any application.
I might want to set a global
font preference in that domain,
for instance.
I might also have a preference
that pertains to any user on this
particular host for any application.
So printer preferences
might be an example of that.
Once those domains are set,
here's where CFPreferences looks.
This is the search list.
In general, we give preference to current
settings over any settings.
We consider the current users
preferences the most important
and we consider application
preferences more important than host.
So we start by looking at
the most specific domain,
the current user for the current
application for the current host,
and move downwards to the most general.
And you can see we're going to search
all of the current users defaults before
looking at the global user defaults.
When we write preferences, by default,
we're going to write it to that most
common domain I was talking about.
This user, this application,
but not specific to any particular host.
So once in a while you find yourself
in a situation where you're writing
four or five different applications
that need to share preferences.
Perhaps they're sharing a
library that defines some common
functionality and there's a
preference unique to that library.
In these cases,
you're going to want to use the suite
preferences provided by C of Preferences.
We consider the applications
that are going to share the
preferences to form the suite.
To do this, you'll need to simply choose
an identifier for your suite.
Usually,
if you're using a shared library,
we recommend that you use the
bundles identifier for that purpose.
And then all the applications that
link against that library or that wish
to partake in the suite simply add the
suite preferences to their search list.
They do this by calling CFPreferences add
suite preferences to app.
The first argument is the app ID.
That's the application to which the
suite preferences will be added.
The second argument is the suite ID,
which tells us which
suite should be loaded.
Once this is done,
all queries to CFPreferences will
search the suite preferences as well.
When you need to write suite preferences,
you'd use the same API you would to
write an application preferences.
You simply substitute the suite's
ID for the application ID.
Once in a blue moon,
you may find yourself needing to
access a specific domain without
going through the search list.
This should be an
incredibly rare occurrence.
In fact,
I don't think any application needs
to do this except for an application
like preferences which itself manages
the full preferences database.
In this case we have the same
three kinds of functions.
We have a read function,
a write function,
and a synchronize function.
However,
instead of specifying the preference
location simply by app ID,
you're going to have to specify
the full triplet of user name,
host name, application name,
application ID I should say.
Now there's some caveats if
you find yourself doing this.
The first one is that not all
of the domains are implemented.
In particular, the defaults for any user,
any host are not implemented yet.
Likewise, on Mac OS 9,
if you have not installed the
login window or if you're not
configured for multiple users,
current user doesn't make any sense.
The intention behind the low-level
APIs is to fail gracefully under these
conditions and simply return null to you.
However,
you have to be prepared for that.
The other promise we make is that
the app functions always work and
properly take care of using only
those domains that are relevant.
Debugging Preferences.
So you're an app developer
and something's gone wrong.
There is a command line tool on DP4,
it's the defaults command,
that allows power users to view and
modify the preferences database directly.
As I said,
you run it from the command line.
There are a number of different options.
I'm not going to go through them now.
But if you just go to the command
line and execute defaults help,
you'll get the full details.
It's got a lengthy usage statement there.
and that's all I want to
say about preferences.
So I'm going to go on now to spend a
moment to talk about the XML services
provided inside of Core Foundation.
There are basically three
levels of XML support.
The first one we've spent a fair
bit of time talking about already.
That's property lists.
The second one is a handful of simple,
quick parsing functions that
parse XML to and from XML trees.
And finally, there's a fine-tuned parsing
API available through CFXML Parser.
So just a reminder,
a property list is any tree
built from the basic CF types.
I've listed them again here.
Array, dictionary, data,
and string should
handle 90% of your data.
Date, number,
and boolean make up the rest.
Property lists have a
flattened XML representation,
and there's a very easy API to convert
back and forth between the rich
CF type tree and the flat XML data.
If you're interested,
CFPropertyList.h for details.
There's also documentation on the web.
CFXML tree provides the
next level of support.
Well, what is a CFXML tree?
A CFXML tree is a specialized
form of a CF tree where each node,
in addition to just the
basic tree structure,
stores a CFXML node.
The CFXML node provides information
to you about the XML structure itself.
So are you looking at a tag?
Are you looking at a comment?
Is this a data string?
And what you find yourself doing is to
walk the tree structure of the XML file,
use the CF tree functions
for CF tree get parent,
CF tree get child count, and so on.
To examine the XML structure
of a particular node,
use CFXML node.
So from the tree,
call CFXML tree get node.
That'll give you the node.
Then the node API can be used
to extract the information
specific to the XML structure.
The API looks like this,
just a couple functions.
CFXMLTreeCreateFromData.
You pass it the allocator
as with any create function.
XMLData is the flattened XML file
just read from disk or retrieved
over the internet or whatever.
SourceURL is the URL to use for any
relative references inside the XML data.
ParseOptions has to do with the different
options available on the parser.
And then the version,
this last field is very important.
The version number tells us which
version of the APIs you're working
with as well as what version
of XML you're working with.
We can guarantee binary compatibility
for a fixed version number.
However, as XML is revved by the W3C and
as the standards change,
we expect to bump the version
numbers and extend the API.
live.
The other direction is to go
from an XML tree to an XML data.
Here the function is a little simpler.
You just pass an allocator
for where to create the data
from and the tree in question.
We walk the tree, generate the XML,
and hand it back to you.
Alright,
so that's all very well and good if
you are happy with using the CFXML tree
structure to represent the XML.
However,
since that can represent any XML file,
it's fairly generic.
Also,
since we're parsing the entire file and
generating the entire tree in one pass,
it can be very memory expensive.
You've loaded the entire file into
data and then we've duplicated
that in constructing the tree.
For higher performing and
more customized behavior,
use CFXML parser.
CFSML parser is callback based.
It's much the same as the SACS parsers.
There are a number of options
available for configuring the parser.
That was that parser option field
that we looked at in the earlier API.
Just a word of warning: in DP4,
not all of the options are implemented.
The documentation has the full
details and is up to date as to what's
implemented in DP4 and what is not.
And that's as much as
I want to say on XML.
I'm going to move on now to talk a
little bit about some of the advanced
memory tricks you can play with CF.
And I'm going to focus on
CFString for those purposes.
The reason why I chose CFString to
focus on in this conversation is,
well, for several reasons.
First of all,
it's the most common CF type.
If people are going to only use
one thing from Core Foundation,
it's probably the String.
Also, it demonstrates many of the
different memory strategies that
are used throughout the system.
So once you know how to use
CFString's optimizations,
the other APIs should look
very straightforward to you.
And finally, probably because it is
the most common type,
CFString supports the most different
kinds of memory optimizations.
So, let's start with the
simplest things you can do.
Move towards immutable whenever possible.
Immutable strings use the least
amount of memory of any string,
because we don't have to
worry about the extra overhead
necessary to grow the string,
right?
Likewise, fixed mutable uses less
than fully mutable.
Secondly, if you're going to have
to walk the entire string,
fetch multiple characters at once.
And you can do that using the
Get Characters API and simply
pass a buffer of characters.
Similarly, there's a handful of functions
that include the word PTR,
pointer.
The pointer functions ask that you
check to see if the CFString has
the desired type on hand.
In other words,
can you return this type to me in
O without any memory allocations,
without any work done?
Now, of course, if the answer is no,
we're going to return null,
and you should be prepared for that.
So you might well see
snippets of code like this:
CFString get Pascal string pointer.
If we have it, we'll return it.
If not, you need to check for null,
and if so, you need to allocate a
buffer for the Pascal string,
and then call the other
The other API,
CFString get pascal string,
passing in your buffer
and then we fill it.
A little more complex is
to use an inline buffer.
This case is useful when you're going
to walk the entire length of a string
or when you're going to be moving around
a lot in a small area and then move
forward and look at another small area.
In other words,
when your access is either
sequential or highly localized.
It keeps the memory overhead
down considerably from either
walking character by character.
[Transcript missing]
And it looks like this.
Create a CFString inline buffer.
That's a structure,
a straight up C structure.
And you can create it on the stack as
long as you know that you don't need
to pass the buffer out from its scope.
Initialize it with your CFString.
So you give it the
CFString init inline buffer.
Give it the CFString in question.
Give it a pointer to the
buffer you allocated.
And then pass the range of
characters you're going to
be interested in looking at.
Now when you need to fetch a character,
instead of going to the CFString,
go to the inline buffer.
CFString get character
from inline buffer,
pass a pointer to the buffer,
and the index of the
character in question.
Beyond that,
the most complex level of memory
management is the no copy functions.
The no copy functions create
CFStrings around your own storage so
you are not running into any memory
copy overhead or double data overhead.
When you do this though,
you are transferring ownership of
the backing storage to CFString.
That means you're going to
tell CFString how to free
the buffer when you're done.
And if you're working
with mutable strings,
you'll also have to tell
CFString how to grow that buffer.
Now, using this trick you can even use
character buffers directly on the stack.
But if you do that,
there are a couple things you
need to be very careful of.
First of all,
obviously if you pass the string outside
of the scope of your stack buffer,
you're going to have a memory exception,
right?
Because the buffer's been blown away.
Likewise,
if even within the buffer's scope you
pass the string down to a function that
then retains the string for later use,
you're going to have the same problem.
You're going to exit the
scope of your buffer.
Whoever it was who retained the string
thinks the string is still good,
but it's not.
So it looks like this.
CFString create with characters no copy.
The first allocator there,
KCF allocator default,
explains how the string
itself should be allocated.
Then you pass it a pointer to
the characters that you have,
my buffer.
You pass it the length of the buffer,
and then finally you pass
the buffer allocator.
This allocator is what the
string is going to use to
manage the memory of my buffer.
When the string is freed,
buffer allocator is going to be
consulted on how to free the characters.
If the buffer needs to grow,
buffer allocator is going
to be used to do that.
So normally you're going to simply
pass whatever allocator you use to
allocate myBuffer in the first place.
On the other hand,
if you don't want CF to do any
management over the myBuffer memory,
pass kcfallocator null.
Okay, so these final slides are mostly
a repeat from this morning,
where you can go to get help.
There's a lot of documentation online.
It's available on the DP4 CD at
System Developer Documentation
Core Foundation.
It's available on the web at
developer.apple.com/techpubs/corefound
ation.
Example code in
System Developer Examples Core Foundation
.
Release notes:
System Developer Documentation.
Core Foundation.html
There's a little additional
information for bundle services,
however.
Inside the release notes directory,
you will find several different
documents of interest.
CFBundle and CFPlugin provide sample
code on how you would use CFBundle and
CFPlugin to create a plugin model.
Info.plist describes the keys
that we define inside the
bundle's information plist.
That's where we configured all the
finder information for the app package.
And localization.html provides
information on how to use the app
packaging model to localize your app
as simply and effectively as possible.
Here are some of the other talks
that you might be interested in.
Core Foundation Basics already happened.
Hopefully you all had
a chance to see that.
Carbon Low Level is Friday and you
can see some of the other pieces that
comprise that core services level.
The App Packaging and Document Typing
talk is going to go into the
details of just exactly what the
structure inside the app package is.
The Localization talk will
give you the details on how to
go about localizing your app.
And then the Localization Tools talk
will tell you about the tools
available on the system to help you.
With that, oh yes, one more thing.
Who to contact?
David Wright is our technology manager.
He's the gentleman who introduced me
and he'll be coming back up for the Q&A.
And we also have an
external feedback list,
cf-feedback@apple.com.
We'll reach all of the developers
involved in Core Foundation.